

# ns-list

<!--
DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE MANUALLY!
This README was generated by running `make`
-->

List a namespace containing many viash config files.

## Usage

This action will run `viash ns list`. See the reference documentation on
[ns list](https://viash.io/reference/viash/ns.html) for more info on
each of the arguments.

We recommend using a Linux or MacOS runner if possible.

### Inputs

- `query`: - *optional*. Filter which components get selected by
  component and namespace name. Can be a regex. Example:
  “^mynamespace/component1\$”.
- `query_namespace`: - *optional*. Filter which namespaces get selected
  by namespace name. Can be a regex. Example: “^mynamespace\$”.
- `query_name`: - *optional*. Filter which components get selected by
  component name. Can be a regex. Example: “^component1”.
- `src`: - *optional*. A source directory containing viash config files,
  possibly structured in a hierarchical folder structure. Default: src/.
- `platform`: - *optional*. (viash \< 0.9.0) Use –runner and –engine
  instead. Acts as a regular expression to filter the platform ids
  specified in the found config files. If this is not provided, all
  platforms will be used. If no platforms are defined in a config, the
  native platform will be used. In addition, the path to a platform yaml
  file can also be specified.
- `runner`: - *optional*. (viash \>= 0.9.0) Acts as a regular expression
  to filter the runner ids specified in the found config files. If this
  is not provided, all runners will be used. If no runners are defined
  in a config, the executable runner will be used.
- `engine`: - *optional*. (viash \>= 0.9.0) Acts as a regular expression
  to filter the engine ids specified in the found config files. If this
  is not provided, all engines will be used. If no engines are defined
  in a config, the native engine will be used.
- `config_mod`: - *optional*. Modify a viash config at runtime using
  config_mod.
- `colorize`: - *optional*. Specify whether the console output should be
  colorized. If not specified, we attempt to detect this automatically.
  Possible values are: “true”, “false”, “auto”.
- `loglevel`: - *optional*. Specify the log level in us. Possible values
  are: “error”, “warn”, “info”, “debug”, “trace”.
- `format`: - *optional*. Which output format to use. Possible values
  are: “yaml”, “json”.
- `parse_argument_groups`: - *optional*. DEPRECATED. This is now always
  enabled. Whether or not to postprocess each component’s
  argument_groups.
- `output_file`: - *optional*. Path of a file to which the output will
  be written. If not set, this action will create a file with a random
  name in `RUNNER_TEMP`.

### Outputs

- `output`: The output of the ‘viash ns list’ command, which is a list
  of all of the components found. By default this will be a yaml, unless
  the format argument was set to ‘json’.

- `output_file`: Path of a file to which the output was written (same as
  \`inputs.output_file\`\`). We recommend using this property for
  capturing the action’s output because there is a limit in the object
  size that github actions can manage. Additionally, if you use this
  property instead of a static file path, changing the location of the
  output file will not require you to adjust settings for downstream
  actions as well.

- `output_matrix`: Matrix of components. The matrix is a json array with
  the following fields:

  - name: The name of the component
  - namespace: The namespace of the component
  - full_name: The full name of the component
  - config: The path to the config file of the component
  - dir: The directory of the config file of the component
  - main_script_type: The type of the main script of the component

## Usage

``` yaml
name: Demo of ns-list

on:
  push:

jobs:
  nslist:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest

    outputs:
      output_file: ${{ steps.ns_list.outputs.output_file }}
      output_matrix: ${{ steps.ns_list.outputs.output_matrix }}
    
    steps:
      - name: Install Viash
        uses: viash-io/viash-actions/setup@v6

      - name: Check out repository
        uses: actions/checkout@v3

      - name: viash ns list
        uses: viash-io/viash-actions/ns-list@v6

      - name: View output
        run: |
          cat "${{steps.ns_list.outputs.output_file}}"
  
  use_matrix:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    needs: nslist
    
    strategy:
      matrix:
        component: ${{fromJson(needs.nslist.outputs.output_matrix)}}

    steps:
      - name: Do something for every component
        run: |
          echo "Name: ${{ matrix.component.name }}"
          echo "Namespace: ${{ matrix.component.namespace }}"
          echo "Runner: ${{ matrix.component.runner }}"
          echo "Engine: ${{ matrix.component.engine }}"
          echo "Config: ${{ matrix.component.config }}"
          echo "Executable: ${{ matrix.component.executable }}"
          echo "Src dir: ${{ matrix.component.src_dir }}"
          echo "Target dir: ${{ matrix.component.target_dir }}"
          echo "Full name: ${{ matrix.component.full_name }}"
```
