

# ns-build

<!--
DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE MANUALLY!
This README was generated by running `make`
-->

Build a namespace from many viash config files.

## Usage

This action will run `viash ns build`. See the reference documentation
on [ns build](https://viash.io/reference/viash/ns.html) for more info on
each of the arguments.

We recommend using a Linux or MacOS runner if possible.

### Inputs

- `query`: - *optional*. Filter which components get selected by
  component and namespace name. Can be a regex. Example:
  “^mynamespace/component1\$”.
- `query_namespace`: - *optional*. Filter which namespaces get selected
  by namespace name. Can be a regex. Example: “^mynamespace\$”.
- `query_name`: - *optional*. Filter which components get selected by
  component name. Can be a regex. Example: “^component1”.
- `config`: - *optional*. Filter which component get selected by
  specifying the config path.
- `src`: - *optional*. A source directory containing viash config files,
  possibly structured in a hierarchical folder structure. Default: src/.
- `platform`: - *optional*. (viash \< 0.9.0) Acts as a regular
  expression to filter the platform ids specified in the found config
  files. If this is not provided, all platforms will be used. If no
  platforms are defined in a config, the native platform will be used.
  In addition, the path to a platform yaml file can also be specified.
- `runner`: - *optional*. (viash \>= 0.9.0) Acts as a regular expression
  to filter the runner ids specified in the found config files. If this
  is not provided, all runners will be used. If no runners are defined
  in a config, the executable runner will be used.
- `engine`: - *optional*. (viash \>= 0.9.0) Acts as a regular expression
  to filter the engine ids specified in the found config files. If this
  is not provided, all engines will be used. If no engines are defined
  in a config, the native engine will be used.
- `parallel`: - *optional*. Whether or not to run the process in
  parallel.
- `config_mod`: - *optional*. Modify a viash config at runtime using
  config_mod.
- `target`: - *optional*. A target directory to build the executables
  into. Default: target/.
- `colorize`: - *optional*. Specify whether the console output should be
  colorized. If not specified, we attempt to detect this automatically.
  Possible values are: “true”, “false”, “auto”.
- `loglevel`: - *optional*. Specify the log level in us. Possible values
  are: “error”, “warn”, “info”, “debug”, “trace”.
- `setup`: - *optional*. Which docker_setup_strategy for creating the
  container to use \[Docker Engine only\].
- `project_directory`: - *optional*. Path to the project directory. This
  is the directory where the project’s `_viash.yaml` file is located. If
  not provided, the current working directory is used.

### Outputs

- `output`: The output of ‘viash ns build’.

## Examples

``` yaml
name: Demo of ns-build

on: 
  push:

jobs:
  viash-linux:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Check out repository
        uses: actions/checkout@v3

      - name: Install Viash
        uses: viash-io/viash-actions/setup@v6

      - name: viash ns build
        uses: viash-io/viash-actions/ns-build@v6
```
